The earth has more than 350,000 species
of flowering plants.
Flowers serve practical needs.
Flowers make pollen in order to reproduce
and nectar for creatures that spread pollen.
Pollination produces nutritious seeds,
fruits, and vegetables.
The beautiful flower we see
may look like this to a bee.
Some flowers reflect ultraviolet light
in ways that create a hard-to-miss target.
We enjoy more than
the flower’s beauty and aroma.
Yet, some plants do not need
beautiful flowers to reproduce.
Flowers, pollen,
nectar, and aromas
are costly for plants to produce.
Those resources could be used
for other purposes.
Yet, plants make flowers
in breathtaking abundance.
Jehovah generously created flowers
in a way that brings us joy
and reminds us
to trust him when we are anxious.
“Take a lesson from the lilies of the field,
“how they grow;
“they do not toil,
“nor do they spin;
“but . . . not even Solomon
“in all his glory
was arrayed as one of these.”
Our tongue can detect five basic tastes.
They are sweet,
salty,
sour,
bitter,
and a rich, savory taste called umami.
But we enjoy not just five flavors
but possibly over 100,000.
How?
As we chew, we also smell our food.
Chewing releases aromas
that pass up into our nose
through the back of our throat.
Taste and smell then combine
to make the flavors we enjoy.
Our taste buds develop before we’re born.
As an unborn baby swallows amniotic fluid,
it may taste what its mother eats
and is more likely
to enjoy the same foods she does.
We don’t just eat to survive.
We love to eat!
It makes us happy.
And the Bible says why:
“That everyone should eat and drink
“and find enjoyment for all his hard work.
It is the gift of God.”
What is color?
It’s how we perceive wavelengths of light.
Objects that reflect all wavelengths
of visible light appear white.
When an object reflects
only some wavelengths,
we see color.
Cells in our eye detect light
and send signals to our brain.
We have three kinds of color-sensing cells:
those that detect red,
green,
and blue.
How do we perceive other colors?
Mixing red, green, and blue light
changes the color we see.
This flower is yellow because it reflects
red and green light into our eye.
With just three kinds of color receptors,
we can distinguish some ten million colors.
Color triggers our emotions.
Blue and green can calm us.
Red and orange can excite!
In the Bible, descriptions that include
color help us learn.
Is there any doubt
that God gave us
the gift of color for our joy?
“I put my rainbow in the cloud,
“and it will serve as a sign of the covenant
between me and the earth.”
Our bodies are designed to move.
The way we move can be complex
or precise.
It could require strength
or stamina.
Walking involves
the coordination of dozens of muscles.
Muscles are controlled
by our brain and nervous system.
They support and move our bones
and are powered by the food we eat
and the oxygen we breathe.
Every body part is a marvel of engineering.
The knee is designed
to withstand repeated impact.
Surrounding tissue cushions and aligns it.
Findings suggest that regular movement
helps prevent joint damage.
The body is a machine
that strengthens as we use it.
Movement helps us
to stay healthy and feel good.
The body is a credit to its Creator.
“For by him we have life
and move and exist.”
Our world is full of sounds.
Some are natural.
Others we create.
We can hear music before we’re born
and can develop a love of music as we grow.
We can compose music,
be moved by it,
and replay it in our minds.
Musical instruments
typically combine a sound generator,
which produces tones
with a resonator,
such as wood or metal,
which adds volume.
The design resembles our own vocal organs.
But few instruments
compare to the beauty of the human voice.
Our hearing complements the voice.
We can listen to things
that draw us closer to God
and use the voice he gave us
to praise him with joy.
“Praise Jah, for Jehovah is good.
“Sing praises to his name,
for it is pleasant.”
Animals fascinate us.
We marvel at their speed,
their agility,
and their strength.
Their beauty and behavior
are a pleasure to watch.
Like us, they play.
Some even dance!
They are industrious.
A beaver dam can extend hundreds of meters.
Some can even be seen from space!
When we observe animals,
we learn more about the Creator.
Their instinctive wisdom reveals his wisdom.
He is caring and generous.
And he is a happy God.
Animals fascinate us
because we are made in God’s image.
We enjoy what He enjoys,
especially our earth and its amazing animals.
They are his gift to us.
“Let us make man in our image,
“according to our likeness,
“and let them have in subjection
“the fish of the sea
“and the flying creatures of the heavens
“and the domestic animals
and all the earth.”